hi my name is Nikki Khan and I've been a
midwife for several years now and this
was the one sleeping peacefully here as
Sookie and she's a gorgeous little girl
of seven weeks of age I'm going to tell
you a little bit today about tummy time
tummy time is something that you
probably hear quite a bit about but
don't know why it's so important main
reason is in 1994 they bought the back
to sleep campaign the little ones were
encouraged to sleep on their back to
prevent thee or reduce the incidence of
cot deaths now this actually worked and
reduce the incidence dramatically but in
doing so it actually also prevented the
little ones time that they spent on
their tummy also was told to us by the
association of charter physiotherapists
that this in turn caused a slowing of
the developmental stages of the child
now not mentally but it just was showed
that the baby was slower in walking slow
and crawling slow and rolling reaching
for things particularly in the early
stages of life because of this we are
encouraging mums and dads to ensure that
their little one has tummy time from day
one this means that two or three times
during the day you put your little one
on tummy even when they come to a head
control just like little Sookie if she
was awake she'd be looking up but this
in itself encourages her the sensation
of feeling what it's like to be on her
tummy you can also do it on the floor
get a cushion on the floor line the
little one on her tummy and put her
favorite toys within an easy reach you
get on the floor with her as well and
siblings around her so that she can
associate that she has to reach roll
over it's totally encouraging her at
this time and if she's getting upset
then lift her up but if she can stay a
bit longer try every time a little bit
longer so she gets used to this and
eventually she will start reaching
forward like she's crawling
now from the age of about three to four
months the head controls obviously a lot
better so you can actually roll up a
towel and pop it under her forearms so
she's leaning over these now this in
itself should try and help her start to
reach forward and encourage her to crawl
and if she's strong enough to actually
hold herself up on her forearms you can
take this town away now there are
statistics that came out in 2006 which
were quite surprising which showed that
19 percent of moms never give their
child tummy time at all and only 22
percent give their child regular tummy
time these statistics are hopefully
changing with the new publications and
the new publicity that it's getting but
it's something that is important
especially in the early stages of life
because but it is something that we need
to encourage and we need to make part of
her daily routine in the home so I hope
you take it on board and that you will
give yourself in little 1 3 times a day
these regular little tummy times and it
will work